---
title: "A New Experiment"
date: 2020-07-25
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - rambling
---

Welcome to my personal blog! 

Writing something for an intended audience is quite different from just spewing one's incoherent thoughts into a journal. It forces one to consider how to get a reader interested in the content, how to maintain that attention, and most importantly, how to ensure that they leave having *gained* something in one way or another.

I've long been inspired by mathy bloggers who explain sometimes difficult concepts with clear and beautiful diagrams and animations, as well as those who walk along the progress in some project of theirs. Sadly, at this point in time I have neither projects nor cool animation ideas, but perhaps that will change in the following weeks as I try to make _creativity_ a part of my weekly routine.

Let me explain...

I've always been a creative type, lauded in middle and high school (impossible standards to surmount, I know) for my writing and always with a keen eye for the visual arts. However, my "interest" in creativity never fostered real creation; I'd never start writing until I was hitting a deadline, I'd only draw in the exceedingly rare moments when I was "inspired", I never left the house to go and just take photographs, the list goes on.

I'm also studying electrical engineering, which is surprisingly close to an artistic field than most people might think. However, for most of my formative years in uni there wasn't quite the opportunity to get into that side of the field, so I was more or less consumed by the math and the theory (which I'm absolutely in love with, by the way). I can't just blame my career for my lack of creative fulfillment, though; it's not like I lacked free time, and I even took art electives to excercise my creative eye.

It turns out I'm just shit at starting new habits, and art never reached the point of becoming a habit for me.

I've tried multiple times to implement some system of either habit tracking or scheduling, but these always became oppressive and when I'd miss a single goal I would throw the rest of them down the drain as well. A sort of "why bother anymore if I already failed" sort of mentality.

What I realized during quarantine as the months just passed by, is that the _day_ is not a workable unit of time for change! There is just waay too much variability from one day to the next, from energy levels, moods, how busy you are, lack of ideas, etc. I can't believe this ocurred to me just recently, but turning all my "daily goals" into "_weekly_ goals" has completely removed that feeling of opression and has made me feel both productive and on-track.

I would say the kindling spark came from a [blog post](http://jamie-wong.com/post/tools-for-sanity/) by Jamie Wong. Even though his small goals are indeed daily, his weekly goal tracker showed amazingly well how the week has enough space for good and bad days and can be more accurately rated as having been "good" or "bad". As he implies in the post, slipping is going to happen inevitably, so making the week my base unit of time should give me enough much needed wiggle-room.

My weekly creative goals are the following:
- Create some piece of art in any medium
 - Even my whiteboard counts
- Create some visual product with coding
 - If you don't about the [coding train](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCvjgXvBlbQiydffZU7m1_aw_), check them out!
- Write in my chonky physical journal
- Listen intently to a new music album
- Write a blog post (hello there!)
- Spend some time doing calligraphy
- Advance in some larger project

Each one of these fits into one day of the week without needing to set apart a non-trivial amount of time or requiring ungodly amounts of effort. Writing this post has taken me around half an hour thus far and it's time much better spent than slaving off to YouTube. There are at least four of these that can even be done in the same evening! I'm already falling behind on my first week though...

This has been a bit of a ramble, and I expect to put out more focused entries in the future. I have no expectations of this blog experiment in particular, if not perhaps turning it into a sort of portfolio of projects. We'll see later down the road :)
